.  Software License Agreement 


IMPORTANT NOTICE


READ THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF YOUR LICENSE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE
COPYING, INSTALLING, OR USING THE PROGRAMS OR DOCUMENTATION.

THE LICENSE AGREEMENT TOGETHER WITH ANY APPLICABLE ADDENDUM REPRESENTS THE
ENTIRE AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU (THE "LICENSEE") AND THE MATHWORKS, INC.
("MATHWORKS") CONCERNING THE PROGRAM(S) AND DOCUMENTATION.
                                                                                                                                                          
BY COPYING, INSTALLING, OR USING THE PROGRAMS AND DOCUMENTATION, YOU ACCEPT THE
TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.  IF YOU ARE NOT WILLING TO DO SO, DO NOT COPY,
INSTALL, OR USE THE PROGRAMS AND DOCUMENTATION. 

_________________________________________________________________

The MathWorks, Inc. Software License Agreement

Installation and Use Addendum (if applicable)

Academic Installation and Use Addendum (if applicable)

Student License and Home License Installation and Use Addendum (if applicable)

Deployment Addendum 




The MathWorks, Inc. Software License Agreement


1. DEFINITIONS. 

    1.1. "Licensee" means you, whether an individual or an entity, to whom
    MathWorks grants the License, and who is responsible for complying with the
    contractual obligations of the License, and ensuring that anyone permitted
    access to the Programs also complies with such obligations.

    1.2. "Affiliate" means a legal entity which is controlled by, or controls,
    or is under common control with Licensee.  Control means (i) beneficial
    ownership of at least fifty percent (50%) of the voting securities of a
    corporation or other business organization with voting securities, or (ii)
    a fifty percent (50%) or greater interest in the profits and capital of a
    partnership or other business organization without voting securities,
    provided that no other individual or entity other than the Licensee also
    has an equal fifty percent (50%) ownership or interest in the legal entity.
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless MathWorks provides its express
    written consent to treat the entity as an Affiliate, an Affiliate shall not
    include any entity that MathWorks has expressly refused to license (or
    grant access under a license to) its software products or that had a
    license for MathWorks software products that MathWorks expressly
    terminated.

    1.3. "Application" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 4.1 of
    the Deployment Addendum anywhere the term is used in the upper case in this
    Agreement.

    1.4. "Computer" means either (i) a single physical hardware system
    containing a single motherboard running an operating system, or (ii) a
    virtual machine running an operating system.

    1.5. "Documentation" means the user guides, if any, accompanying delivery
    of a Program on DVD or made available at mathworks.com/help, as may be
    updated from time to time, including the bug reports made available at
    mathworks.com/support/bugreports.  Documentation may be delivered in any
    medium or language. 

    1.6. "Internal Operations" means the use of a Program by employees,
    consultants, student interns, and software administration contractors of
    Licensee or an Affiliate on behalf of the Licensee or Affiliate.

    1.7. "Licensed User" means an individual authorized by MathWorks or the
    Licensee to use the Programs for Licensee's Internal Operations, to the
    extent permitted by the License Option acquired.

    1.8. "License Manager" means the FlexNet license management software, or
    the MathWorks Hosted License Manager ("MHLM"), provided with the
    Program(s).

    1.9. "License Option" means the specific rights, restrictions, and
    obligations under which Licensee may install and use a Program pursuant to
    this Agreement, as described in the applicable Installation and Use
    Addendum, and including restrictions associated with the License being an
    "Annual License," "Term License," "Perpetual License," "Student License,"
    "Home License" or "Certain MATLAB Distributed Computing Server ("MDCS")
    Uses," as described under Article 10 of this Agreement. 

    1.10. "Licensor" means the person who, or entity which, grants a license to
    MathWorks to redistribute that person's or entity's intellectual property.

    1.11. "Perpetual License" means the right to use the License indefinitely
    provided that the Licensee always remains in compliance with the terms of
    this Agreement. 

    1.12. "Program" means the software licensed hereunder, including
    Documentation, enhancements and error corrections.  Each product licensed
    hereunder is a separate Program.

    1.13. "Third Party" means any person or legal entity that is not MathWorks,
    the Licensee, or an Affiliate.

    1.14. "Third Party Software" means the software referenced in Article 8 of
    this Agreement.


2. ACCEPTANCE AND REFUNDS.  If Licensee does not accept the terms and
conditions of this License and any applicable Addendum, or if Licensee
terminates this License, for any reason, within thirty (30) days of Program
delivery (the "Acceptance Period"), then Licensee shall immediately return the
Programs licensed hereunder to MathWorks or the authorized distributor from
whom Licensee acquired the Programs and, if returned within the Acceptance
Period, shall receive a full refund.  By retaining a Program throughout the
Acceptance Period, Licensee accepts the applicable rights, and agrees to be
bound by the applicable obligations and restrictions, of this Agreement
including the License Option acquired with respect to that Program.

3. PROGRAM TRIAL EVALUATION.  Licensee agrees to use any Program provided to
Licensee as a trial or evaluation only for the period of the trial evaluation
which may be controlled by a license key code, only to evaluate it individually
for potential purchase of a license to the Program as an end-user, to conduct
no business with it, and to remove it and all result files produced from any of
Licensee's computers at the end of the trial or evaluation period and to comply
with all other obligations and restrictions in this Agreement. 

4. LICENSE GRANT.  The MathWorks Programs are licensed, not sold.  MathWorks
hereby grants to Licensee, subject to the terms of this Agreement, a
nonexclusive license (the "License") to:

    4.1. install and use the Programs solely on Computers controlled by
    Licensee, in accordance with the License Option acquired as provided in the
    relevant Installation and Use Addendum, and solely for Internal Operations; 

    4.2. provide access to online Documentation on Licensee's intranet,
    provided it is not accessible over the open Internet; 

    4.3. print portions of the online Documentation for reasonable use by
    Licensed Users; and 

    4.4. use the Programs as expressly set forth in the Deployment Addendum.

5. LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.  The License is subject to the express restrictions
set forth below and any other restrictions set forth in any signed agreement
between MathWorks and Licensee. Licensee shall not, and shall not cause or
permit any Affiliate or any Third Party to, directly or indirectly:

    5.1. modify or create any derivative work of, a Program or any part of a
    Program, except as expressly permitted in Article 8 of this Agreement and
    in the Deployment Addendum.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
    contained herein, any such permitted modifications must be consistent with
    all other terms of this Agreement;

    5.2. use a Program or any part of a Program, for any act which infringes
    copyright of a Program including developing, producing, or testing a
    computer program containing a feature or functionality that is
    substantially similar in its expression to the expression contained in a
    Program or any part of a Program;


    5.3. adapt, translate, copy, or convert all or any part of a Program in
    order to create software, a principal purpose of which is to perform the
    same or similar functions to a Program or to replace a Program or any
    component of a Program; 

    5.4. rent, lease, or loan the Programs; use the Programs for supporting
    Third Parties' use of the Programs, time share the Programs, or provide
    service bureau or similar service use;

    5.5. disassemble, decompile, reverse engineer a Program, or any portion
    thereof, or attempt to gain access to its method of operation or source
    code;

    5.6. sell, license, sublicense, provide access, publish, display,
    distribute, disseminate, assign, or otherwise transfer (whether by sale,
    exchange, lease, gift, or otherwise) to a Third Party the Programs, any
    copy or portion thereof, or any License or other rights thereto, in whole
    or in part, without MathWorks' prior written consent, except as expressly
    permitted in the Deployment Addendum; 
 
    5.7. alter, remove, or obscure any copyright, trade secret, patent,
    trademark, logo, proprietary and/or other legal notices on or in copies of
    the Programs;

    5.8. use MathWorks' name, trade names, logos, or other trademarks of
    MathWorks or any of its Affiliates or Licensors in any advertising,
    promotional literature or any other material, whether in written,
    electronic, or other form, distributed to any Third Party, except in the
    form provided by MathWorks, and then solely for purposes of identifying
    MathWorks' Programs;

    5.9. provide access (directly or indirectly) to the Programs via a web or
    network Application, except as permitted in Article 8 of the Deployment
    Addendum;

    5.10. copy, make available for copy, or otherwise reproduce the Programs,
    in whole or in part, except either (a) as may be required for their
    installation for the purpose of executing the Program in accordance with
    the License Option, (b) as expressly permitted in the Deployment Addendum,
    or (c) to make a reasonable number of copies solely for back-up purposes
    provided that any such permitted copies shall reproduce all copyright,
    trade secret, patent, logo, 